(00:00):
Let's begin with the first and most important question, which is why Airflow? Why Airflow can help you in many different use cases. And to answer that question, we're going to start from a very simple data pipeline. So let's imagine we have this data pipeline trigger every day at 10:00 PM, with three tasks, extracting, transforming, and loading where each task depends on the other. Extracting is executed first, then transforming, and finally loading. Extracting is in charge of downloading data from an API. But the first question is what happens if the API is not available? Then once you have the data, you want to process it with DBT or Spark. But what happens if the DBT job or the Spark job fails? What should you do? How can you be warned that the DPT or Spark job has failed? Then once you have processed your data, you want to store it into a database. But again, if the database is not reachable, well, you won't be able to store your data. And again, you have to find a way in order to be warned about that and to retry the task automatically.
But that's not all. As you can see, we might end up with an error at each step at each task of our data pipeline. But in the real world, you will have hundreds of different data pipelines to monitor at the same time. And as you can imagine, if you don't have the right tool to do that, it will become a real nightmare.
Now, I've seen so many people using cron in order to handle their data pipelines. But the problem is cron is really limited, and you shouldn't use cron in order to manage your data pipelines. Why? Because you can handle complex differences between your tasks. You are not able to monitor your tasks automatically. You are not able to retry them. You are not able to be warned if a task fails. And why? You don't have any user interface in order to manage all of your data pipelines. So many things that you can't do with cron. So what should you use instead? What should you use? You should go with Airflow. Airflow is the perfect tool in order to create, monitor, and manage your data pipelines. And that's what we're going to discover in the next video.

